Anuradha: Hi everyone, welcome to my YouTube
channel.
This is the first video for my interview series
and
I am so excited to have my first guest as
Santosh yadav.
So he is a very special guest for me.
Welcome Santosh.
Santosh: Thanks a lot Anuradha, it has been
an honor to be like your first guest.
Anuradha: Thank you, I am so grateful that
you accepted my request.
Anuradha: I would like to talk a little bit
about Santosh, like give a little bit of introduction.
So, he is one of the very active community
builders out there,
who are helping people in tech community.
He is a Google Developers Expert for Angular
and
he is also a GitHub Star.
Actually, fun fact, he is the first person
from India to be the GitHub star.
And he does a lots of open source work and
content creation,
speaking at international conferences.
And, he helps people in tech community.
So we are really glad to have you in tech
community, to be very honest, Santosh. Thanks
a lot.
Santosh: Thank you!
Anuradha: Okay, so since we are talking about
tech community
so I would like to start my first question
with that only.
So, like you have lots of involvement in the
tech community and
I would like to ask what is your motivation
behind it,
how do you keep going ?
Santosh: My main motivation was just to give
back to the community
So, when I actually started contributing to
open source,
the whole motive was, I have actually made
my career out of open source and
now, it's time to give back.
I realise that I am using it, everything for
free now and
I don't even give money to anyone, and I
am making
more money than I need.
So, that's how it started. And I thought,
let's go back and give back to the community
and then I searched for it.
I mean, I was not aware where to actually
look out for the community, so
of course, as being, I think it is with almost all Indians that we
we are more active on facebook rather than
twitter. That's how it was for me as well.
So, and then I realized that the entire community
is actually not on facebook,
they are on twitter, you can actually reach
out to anyone.
I mean from Google team, or let say Microsoft,
that's how it started,
and I started becoming more active on twitter,
and started
getting involved with Angular, like content
creation, or doing open source work.
That's how it all started, but yeah
the main motive was to actually give back to the community because of course,
I was not doing that.
Anuradha: that's actually a very noble cause
I would say.
And definitely, because we get a lot out of
the community,
everything we do in all our projects and everything,
it's lots of
open source things we are consuming.
So, it only makes sense to give back, yeah.
Definitely.
And actually I would really concur with you
because before few years,
i did not know much about twitter, so there
was just facebook and
personally I did not like it a lot, so I don't
have any accounts still on facebook,
but when I discovered Twitter, it was really
nice, because
I could see lots of tech content, and
opportunity to talk with tech community,
and get to know what's happening and all.
So,
it has been a game changer, really.
I mean, twitter is a really nice place, at
least,
I have also found it really nice to connect
with the tech community.
So, yeah,
You do a lots of content creation, and all,
so I am going to ask you
maybe a universal question but
Do you get nervous while presenting or creating
content?
<<I was so nervous I kept laughing a lot,
phew>>
Santosh: Everytime!
So, I have done like 50-60 livestreams but,
evertime I actually start my livestream, I
am like
Oh My God, I am going to , what I am going
to do.
And how am I doing it, and
why am I doing it?
I am really scared,
but yeah, I mean
but once it starts, right, so you get into
the flow.
Even like presenting any talks, I mean I know
the content,
I know what needs to be presented. I can even
just blindly in my dreams,
or in my sleep also I can just tell you about
what I am about to present.
But, when you go live, right,
it really actually makes you so nervous.
So, yeah that I think happens with everyone.
I even remember my first talk which I gave,
in person talk which I gave
at (ng) Sri Lanka, and I was like
within 5 minutes, i was like, I was not even
be able to breathe,
because I was just running on the entire stage,
from here to there,
and I was like, okay what am I doing right
now.
And, of course, yeah I was really nervous
presenting something in
front of 300 people. So,
it happens, i think it's natural.
Anuradha: Yeah, exactly
I mean, I always actually thought that maybe
it
gets better the next time, but
everytime I am like, okay it should just start,
because, I mean, like maybe the 5-10 minutes
before the start,
you feel the heat, like
what will, is going to happen and yeah
when it starts, it starts. Like,
for today also, I was very nervous beforestarting
the recording, but yeah
I mean it's fine now (No it was not, I was
still nervous )
So, I would also like to ask you, like is
there any
tip which you would like to give,?
I talk to lots of people and they are like,
they always feel that will they be able to
talk on screen and
will they be really able to keep up with the
audience hopes, and all.
So, they get lots of anxiousness and nervousness.
So, like do you have any tips for the newcomers,
like do not feel alone,
everybody gets nervous, and all.
Santosh: I mean, so from past 2 years, we
are actually just doing virtual things, right.
So I would say whenever you are going virtual,
I think, uh, the thing is.
you should concentrate on your content, don't
think
because there is no one to actually give you
feedback, right,
Especially when you are doing live streams
and, like giving a talk in a virtual
conference,
no one is there to actually give you feedback.
So remember,
just try to be yourself and just have confidence
on yourself, that will pay.
But in case you are actually presenting in
a, like, in-person conference,
I think, the entire scenario changes, right.
Now you have people in front of you.
So try to make as much as eye contact as possible.
Try to, I mean, of course not with 300 people,
but some people, right, I mean okay.
They are listening to you and, again, like
if you have your content, don't like try to
go out of your content.
Right. You know, your content really well.
So sometime it happens that okay, in just
flow, we actually talk about something else,
which isn't related to your content, but probably
you didn't want it to mention it. Right.
And then entire talk stretches up and entire
topic goes somewhere else. And everyone is
confused.
So try to like concentrate on what your topic is.
And of course, eye contact and, be cool.
I mean, so the first mistake which I made
in my first conference,
which I went to, so I was running on the entire
floor.
I mean, so I was like breathless in like 5
to 10 minutes.
So, and, uh, I think have a bottle of water
with you because you need it.
Anuradha: Yeah. I mean, yeah, really, really
nice tips because
I realized that I also make it sometime like
I'm talking and
suddenly I want to talk about a little bit
more about that, and then you realize that,
okay, you have used up the time for talking
something else.
Now you need to cut something from your content
if you want to be on time.
So yeah, definitely stick to the content and
be confident.
And so I was wondering like how do you choose
topics for your content
like, uh, I mean, do you have any, scheduling
routine that you follow, like,
or write down something whenever you come
across it.
How do you do it?
Santosh: So, this year I have not given
so many talks.
I generally repeat my talks because generally
what I try to do is - have something which
is hands-on.
So probably you will find something like,
mostly related to coding,
how you can improve the performance, all those
things. So,
I try not to do like content, which is just
like coming in and talking until and unless
it's like 30 minutes or 45 minute slot.
That's why I generally, I, in this year, of
course it was just like I did, I didn't do
many conference talks,
even though they virtualized many last year.
So.
But, yeah, I mean, before I just try to choose
my content, I take it from my real life experience.
I mean, whatever I have done in my project,
right? Because,
when working with multiple projects, of course
you realize that, okay, something can be improved
and, uh,
the knowledge which you get in your projects,
you will never get it, like even doing open
source.
Right. You will not get that experience because
the problems we are trying to resolve or solve
in your project and the problem we are trying
to resolve in open source, they are totally
different. Right. So you get to learn a few
more things from your actually live projects.
And that's, that's from where I generally
try to take the contents from.
Okay, I face this issue now and how can I
resolve it because again, probably a hundred
or thousands of developers are already facing
this issues.
So for example, my, uh, I generally try to
repeat my performance optimization talk because
ofcourse that's,
that's important because I've seen multiple
projects suffering with those.
And of course, a lot of developers can get
a benefit from them.
Anuradha: Yeah, that's definitely right. I
mean, lots of people when get benefited and
yeah we should talk more about it.
Um, so not only conferences, so like you had
so many streams and, uh, I guess articles
also as well, so different mediums of creating
content.
Santosh: Yeah. So on livestreams, I generally
try to see like who is available and what
they are good with.
So I try to give them the topic which they
feel comfortable with or what they are doing
currently.
So let's say if I figure out, okay, someone
is actually have written a blog post on, let's
say anything, like, for example, NGRX, or React.
Then I try to check with them if they
are comfortable coming to the talk show and
then talking about it.
One thing is of course, as a host, you should
make them comfortable. Right.
So I generally give them questions. These
are the questions in case you don't like,
or you'd want to add or remove some questions
that's up
to you.
So, that's really important thing because
whenever you realize, I mean, sometime I generally try
to give chance to the developers who
have never been on live stream and they really
get scared, but, most of them turn out to
be like, okay, it was really great Santosh,
because I felt really comfortable.
And that's what I have learned from John Papa basically. When I went on to his first stream,
I was really scared. I'm talking to John Papa,
I was like, oh my God. And even Dan Wahlin
was there. So, but they made me really comfortable
while talking and then I just took the same
thing and then apply to my live streams.
Anuradha: Yeah, this is so nice. I mean, definitely
because, making the guests comfortable is
definitely one important thing. Otherwise,
you won't get the best out of them.
If they don't have good experience, then they
might feel that, yeah, this might not work.
So, and I remember like, you inviting me on
your talk show also.
And I was really happy because, I mean, I
didn't realize that, I was really maybe fit
to come on your talk show, but you invited,
so,
It boost my confidence. So yeah, that's really
nice of you.
And to be honest, I mean, I really liked that,
calling people who are even new and giving
them a chance because they are doing good
and you want to give them a platform, that's
really nice strategy.
That's how you help others also rise up. So I'm actually definitely gonna implement this. I have
those plans for this interview series also.
Let's see how it goes, so, okay.
Just a tangent question.
Are you a morning person or night person?
I mean, there is always lots of debate about
this on Twitter.
So I was curious, like, what do you find like personally working for you.
Santosh: I mean it's, it's 11:30 pm. So what
do you think?
I was never a morning person, so. I think it was because my school was in
afternoon.
So when I was a kid, so my school used to
be like at 12:30 pm, so I never used to actually wake
up before 9 or 10 am.
And so that's how it started . The rough
phase was when I went to the college. So my
college was at 7 in the morning and I
had to travel like 30 to 45 minutes
from Mulund to Airoli (Mumbai), which was via bus. Then I suffered a lot because, of course, I
used to miss lectures as well. I mean, of
course, when even though you reach early, you are
not sure about the bus, right. I mean
they have fixed timing. I used to miss buses a lot, but I mean, that was
like how many, three and three, six years
that was a rough phase. And I actually had to
attend college in morning.
Anuradha: That's totally opposite
for myself.
So I was curious, which school did you go to? Afternoon sounds like a very nice time to go to school.
Santosh: It was in Mulund. It was called Dan vally
, it was in a Hindi medium school actually.
so, uh, yeah, and after.
Anuradha: it sounds good - afternoon shift.
Santosh: I loved it.
Anuradha: More and more schools need to be afternoon shift.
So I see all that you are doing
in tech. And I wanted to know, do you have other things that you
do apart from tech? Because like tech is not
only life, right? There is more to life.
Santosh: So actually, when I was in Mumbai. So,
when I was actually working with a
startup, so we used to play football every
week, every wednesday. So that was
the last time and before that actually,
when I was in school and college, of course I
used to play cricket, but, then I took
my career really seriously, and then I stopped
doing everything.
And, after coming to Pune, actually I don't
have much friends here in Pune. I had one friend with
whom actually I used to go to weekends party.
I mean, with the family, of course, but then
he went to the US and then, again, he went
to us after the corona came, but I started
running last year. So, whenever I get time, actually, I just go for a run
Like 5 kilometers daily. Not daily, but yeah, alternate days. So that's what I'm doing right
now, but yeah, I mean, uh, let's see. I mean, if I get like more people probably we
can start playing football again. I loved,
I loved playing football.
Anuradha: That's nice. 5 KM is a big distance.
Santosh: I remember when I started, it's like,
I used to take one hour for five kilometers run,
but now I can complete in 30 minutes.
So yeah, that's an achievement.
Anuradha: I know because when I started walking
in the start, I was like, I would get breathless
very easily. And people who are walking
with me, they're like, what happened? I was
like, no, I just can't walk anymore.
It takes time, but I think that's how we reclaim
our health. It is good.
It is definitely a great hobby. Do you also like read books or something?
Read books or, watch movies.
Santosh: So, uh, reading books. That's,
it looks like, uh, my weakest area because in college, even when I, uh,
I used to actually read books in library and
I used to only read when I was in college.
And I used to only read at home whenever I'm not falling asleep, sleepy.
So as soon as I realized, okay, I'm not going to sleep right, now let's,
let's read a book and within 5, 10 minutes,
of course I'm going to bed. So that
was my strategy in school. And. Now, it is
like, I, even though I need to read books
sometimes I cannot.
So I finished few books. For example, I finished the book on Elon Musk,
which was there. I purchased it and I finished
it, I really liked the story. So,
I took like a week and finished it, but
I have still books, which I have purchased
like six months ago and I am still on chapter 2.
Anuradha: For me reading, when I was small,
it was like opposite. Sleep was
kind of escaping reading because, my mom
would be like, yeah, you have to read.
And she's looking at whether you are studying
or not. And then I would study and do like <acting of dozing off> .
And then, she would know that ok I'm acting, but still she would say - okay, If you are
trying to sleep, go to bed and sleep. So yeah.
Relief from studying.
Santosh: I know. [Laughs]
Even in movies, I mean, we really love watching movies.
I mean, of course my daughter as well. So
generally, I mean, I love all the Marvel
movies and entire Avengers series, so let's see. I'm just waiting for this.
Anuradha: Spiderman?
Santosh: Spiderman. But they (family) don't. I mean, generally I used to go alone sometime, but now
they say, okay, we will also go because
last two years we have, we haven't really
gone out of state, right.
So they join me as well. So last week
we saw Eternals and then we saw Suryawanshi. And now let's
see. I mean, whenever I'm.
Anuradha: I also. I am a Marvel fan
So, it's so nice to hear that. I just love it, but I
haven't been able to watch the last few movies,
like, Eternals and Shang-Chi, but I think I should
go and watch it before, Spider-Man is almost
released. So yeah, I have lots to catch up now.
So coming back to
social media, like. I know you see it.
And I see it.
Everyone is seeing this trend of hustle culture.
You know, lots of people keep talking about
keep hustling, keep hustling. So, uh, like what
do you personally think about this hustle culture.
Santosh: I mean, I've done
that, I will not lie. Because when I
when I was in start-up, I've done that. I've done along with my team.
So we used to come daily and then we used
to like, uh, whatever happens, we are
going to fix this issue. We have worked like
four days in a week. I mean for entire four days
we were in office or let's say, went to the
office at 2:00 AM in the early morning (mid-night?)
But I think at some point of time you realize
that it was not worth it.
I mean, of course at the end, what matters?
It's your family. And in case you are
doing it as an employee, I mean, why you're
doing it? You're getting paid 8 hours.
You're not getting paid for like 24 hours a day.
So try to create a balance between those,
of course, if it's your new, your own startup.
I mean, people do that because of course at
the end, that's from where they are going
to earn money, but why you should do it as
an employee, what you are getting out of it.
You are getting nothing. I mean, believe me, once
you leave your job or once you decide to leave
your job, no one cares. You will be
replaced easily, but what can not be replaced
is the time you missed with your family.
And I have missed a lot. I mean, I remember my daughter was born, and of
course I was doing it because I had loans to pay, a lots of loans to pay because
of whatever happened during my daughter <inaudible>. But. After,
like, I just realized that, okay, she's four
now.
And what I have done, I have done nothing. I mean, I just lost all those time because I was just
too involved, like making money and making
sure that okay. I met my job. My work is actually
getting recognized at work, but at the end
of the day, after four years, I mean, it was
like, okay, I just wasted my time. I learned a
lot of course, because that was my first job
where I got the opportunity to actually work
on some real-time applications or get involved,
in building something from scratch, but, I mean, it was not well-defined because,
after leaving, what was there, nothing. I mean, if it was my own startup, of course
I would have done that, but still, I mean,
even in that case, keep a balance between
your family and, what is happening. I
mean, I saw a Twitter post, some months
ago where a guy who probably might be running his own start-up.
So he posted that my daughter is born and then I'm working from hospital like
that, blah, blah, blah. I was like, okay,
what, why you are doing that? And why
you're showing it to people. I mean, what you're trying to prove. Enjoy this time,
right? I mean, you're not going to get that time back again.
You're not going to play with your daughter
when she was 2 again, I mean, you cannot
just go back, like you don't have super powers
to go back in time. Right? So that time lost
is lost. You can not do anything.
Anuradha: Yes, I totally agree. I agree that we all have
been there at some point in time, even I was
like working 12, 13 hours in the start, but
I do realize that
no, nothing is worth it because your
family and your health really matters a lot,
and that is going to stay with you. So, yeah,
I really wanted to ask you this question just
to bring this out because, when I talk
to newcomers, they're always like,
always into like, working odd hours and
I don't feel good about it because I have
done it too.
And I know that I did not realize it back
then, but I had to pay for it. My health was
adversely affected because of that. So you
don't realize, but later you will realize,
I mean, few days are good I guess, like sometimes your company really needs
you to work on weekends? Maybe there
is something very important, so that's okay.
that we can do, it's our responsibility, but
it shouldn't be daily.
Santosh: Actually, if you're doing a daily, something is wrong with your organization.
I mean, there are some companies
who also try to exploit you, right?
I mean, you are a new fresher, you should
do that too. Believe me. I mean, I left my
first job because my CEO or whatever he was,
he actually asked me to just one day he asked
me to work till 8:30 pm.
And next day, I resigned because from Day 1,
I had this policy that I'm not going to
work on someone else's terms. I mean, if you ask me to work for 12 hours,
I will never do it. If I feel like I have
to work for 12 hours, I will do it. That was
my policy. And then of course that fired back,
right?
I mean, in four years or five years where
I worked at startup. Because I was doing it,
my company took me for granted. So, remember this, even though you'd feel
like that I should work for 12 hours, never do it.
Because your company is going to take you
for granted that, okay, this guy will be available
at anytime and then they will make it practice.
They will make it habit. So never do that
because if you start doing it next, next employees,
whoever like next hundred or thousands of
employees suffer as well, because you just made a mistake.
Anuradha: Yeah. It happens. Because people
say that they don't have any problem in doing that
Santosh: Actually, why are you doing that, actually.
Anuradha: We are also setting a wrong example for others.
If we don't do the right thing. Definitely.
So this is definitely a point worth
noting. Thank you. So, there are
lots of new things which keep coming up like
the new technologies, new frameworks and new
features within the same framework which you
are working with like, I mean, I read your
Twitter post on FOMO, like, I guess
a few weeks or months ago, maybe that you do not give in to the FOMO (Fear Of Missing Out)
I want to know, like, how do you do it? It
hits so hard.
Santosh: I know. Probably the reason is I have survived for too long. So I remember when I started with dotnet,
people were like use Java, learn Java. Java is
everything. And then I was like, no, I love
dotnet. So probably I'll stick with it. Then I
continued with dotnet and then I started
exploring new things. Of course you have a
lot of things to explore. Even if you get stuck
with a single framework. Believe me. I mean,
even you work for two, three years, I still
get to learn a lot of new things in Angular.
And I mean, I have been writing Angular for last 4 years now, close to 5 years.
So, but I still get to learn something new daily. So why should I go back to something
new, which I even don't know about and then
have to. Remember, going back to another technology
is fine, but you have to always remeber that you
have to build your career from scratch, right?
You have to start from day zero and at end of
the day, you have to bring money at home, right.
So I feel comfortable. Okay. I have
done, even though when I started with angular,
I was actually restarting my career. I left a startup where I
worked for almost five years and then I was
restarting. I was like, okay, now what
next to do. I don't want to get stuck with dotnet
because dotnet was not open source at that
time.
And I wanted to actually move into something,
some frontend and then Angular came in. I gave
it a chance and then it paid off. But,
just because who is coming with TypeScript.
I mean, of course I love all the technologies
I love to learn. So, because that's what I
keep doing because I go to the talks and see, okay.
How it, how it's done, explore things. I know, probably I can also do that. You have
to just follow the documentation. I mean, That's it, something that's Everyone can do. Right.
But yeah, I mean, I have to choose my career
at the end of the day. I have to make money
out of it. So that's where I'm more focused
on, I mean, take any technology, if you're
really good at it, no one can ignore you.
That's what I believe in. So I chose angular.
I know I'm good at it. That's why people pay
me, of course. Right. And it can be same with
you, choose React, choose Vue. Just be good at
it. And then you'll get to go into the market
and say, look, I need this much money and
no one will say no to you. Just prove yourself.
Anuradha: Yes. I mean, yeah, that's what. I also don't get this, choosing one framework
over other thing. I mean, everything is
good. At the end of the day, it should like
pay your bills and you should feel good working
with it. So that's all, I mean, that
should be it because yeah, money is needed. I
mean, I don't know.
I mean, people need to say it louder and louder,
that it's okay that you are going behind a
shiny framework or anything, but it
should bring you money. Right. It should.
Santosh: Otherwise, why you are doing it.
Anuradha: Do you have any suggestions for
the newcomers? Because I always see these
newcomers getting literally hit by these kinds
of things. There's lots of, I don't know what
we call it, but lots of so many posts on Twitter,
specifically which has like potential
to always play with mind of newcomers <distract them>.
Like at one moment they might think that this is good, at other moment
they might think that no, no, no. I should do this also, this also, this also. It's a lot for them.
Santosh: I think that's one thing where the community builders are
doing something, probably not talking enough. So I can see a lot of
I mean, a lot of people on Twitter spreading,
like fear that you should learn this. I mean,
of course, just few weeks ago. I mean, there
was a tweet that if you don't know this,
this, this, you are not a web developer. So
those are the things I think we should not,
give more exposure to. We are at fault.
Believe me, I've seen account with like
50K followers, 100K followers doing the same
stuff. I mean, they're just posting react
versus angular versus Vue, what's your thought?
And then people are like shit posting. I mean,
they don't know because they have never worked
with multiple frameworks. Right. And then.
As that account has like 50 K or 100 K followers,
of course, students actually see, okay, this,
this guy might be right. And other thing
is whenever there is something negative,
which is posted, we give a lot of value to
it somehow. I'm not sure why. I mean, I want
Anuradha: I always see negative posts getting more traction than the positive ones.
Santosh: Yeah. I mean, if you see that, okay, this
is wrong. I mean, just leave it right. I mean,
don't give like a focus to it. I mean, if
you're sharing it, you're sharing it in your
connection. I mean probably whatever, 10 K
20 K connections you have, you are actually sharing
it with them. And probably someone might get trapped.
Right. I mean, okay, this is something we
have to learn. So for new students, I will
always suggest, just explore, right?
I mean, what you're afraid of.
You're just starting your career. Just go ahead and explore. What are the technologies
out there? What are different frameworks out there, just see which one you are comfortable with.
That's how actually, when I restarted
my career, I actually came to Angular. Uh,
of course react was there as well. So I gave both a look and then I realized, okay,
React had no support for TypeScript then.
It still doesn't have native
support, but yeah you can now go ahead and
thanks to typescript, like getting more involved
in TSX.
They have added support now, but yeah,
I mean, back in that day, there was no support.
So I chose, I mean, I thought, I saw React.
And I was like, okay, I have done angular JS,
but I think this is something which I
don't think I'll be more comfortable
with. And then I saw Angular. And I just saw, okay TypeScript,
which is closer to dotnet.
Done.
So I'm going with this.
Anuradha: Yeah. I mean, everyone has a different journey and different experience,
so definitely explore for yourself because everybody we talk to
will have a different one. Like we were already talking
that there are lots
of negative things on Twitter as well.
And actually people also put each other down.
I mean, you will see trolls. Whenever we're
creating even content or somewhere, people
might say something hurtful to you. It's hard
not to get de-motivated like, I mean,
obviously it would have happened for you also,
because I realized that a few days ago when
you were tweeting something and you deleted
it and then you again tweeted it because someone
tried to call you out on that.
Uh, but there was nothing wrong with it. It's
still, so, I mean, how do you handle it?
Santosh: Yeah, I mean, so something happened with me like around a year and a half ago. So someone
actually called me out, I mean, he was, of
course he was wrong. And, I was really
disappointed. I was really hurt because, I mean, it never happened with me.
I was like, okay, I'm not spreading like false information. I'm just doing my work.
And then someone actually just went on to call me like a greedy person or something
like that. So I was really disappointed. I mean, I almost decided to quit the community.
So I, I said, okay, now I'm done. I mean, I'm not going to stay with this Angular community
anymore, but I think at the end of the day,
You see, like, what type of connection
you have made?
So people stood up for me, they've actually,
some people were like fighting entire night
with that guy, just for me, because he said something to me. I was not even getting, I
mean, I was not even talking to him. I don't want to reply, reply him directly. So I ignored
him, but people started fighting for me and then I realized, okay, why I am doing it for,
I mean, if I even quit the community, what I'm going to get out of it.
I mean, of course a single guy versus like 10 different people who are actually
there fighting for me. So who matters? Not that one guy, of course, that he doesn't
matter to me, but what other 10 people are doing for me that matters at the end of the
day. So, I mean, if you have like created yourself, like you have really good image
in the community, I don't think so that
anyone's opinion matters. Of course, we are free to actually give some kind of, let's
say a response. That's absolutely fine in case, let's say I did
some work. You find it incorrect. I mean, of course we can just go ahead and talk about it.
But like targeting someone because he thinks that, okay, my opinion and your opinion
doesn't match, it's totally wrong.
And it happens a lot on Twitter because of course it's a free platform, right. Anyone
can come and use it. And then there is, that's where everything goes wrong. And
some people think that okay, only they are right. And they try to actually force on to you.
They don't try to actually, they don't try
to actually engage in like a distant conversation
or constructive feedback you can say, but
they try to just force onto you because they
know if I am wrong,
if I take this, as let's say, I am wrong here, probably I may lose followers. Believe me
that people do this. Once they realize that, okay, this thread or this particular Twitter
conversation is going against me, they will
delete the entire thread. People do that as well.
So I would suggest, just stay away from such people.
They, probably they are not the one you should be following or they are not
the one you should get engaged, you talk a lot about talk on Twitter,
just try to see. There are a lot of people who are trying to help genuinely. I mean,
everyone knows Danny, Danny Thompson is like doing a great job, try to follow those
guys. who are
actually putting some content and,  who are trying to actually help the community
really grow rather than following trolls or
listen to some trolls who are just doing some
stuff. And another thing is cancel culture.
And of course, I mean, there are some people
who do something intentionally, but calling them
out and then telling them to actually.
Yeah. I mean,  you know, cancel culture, right? I mean, they start,
stop following you. I mean, you should not have, even in that case, even though they
were wrong, but you should not be like that, that you are calling,
calling them out and saying, people should
not follow them.
I mean, it's okay. Right. I mean, people can be wrong, but asking people not to follow
them it's something which you should not
do. People should realize it. Okay. Okay.
This person was really wrong and probably
he's trying to share some wrong knowledge
or trying to be smart. I mean, it should be up to the users who are using twitter.
It should not be your job to call them out and then say, okay, let's stop following this
guy. Let's unfollow his youtube, let's unfollow his blogs. I mean, that should not be what
people be doing on Twitter. That's also very,
really bad. I mean, of course there are both
type of people. Right? I mean, there are good people who are trying to call them out, but
I mean, that's not your job.
He was wrong. He was wrong. That's it?
Anuradha: Yeah, it depends upon the
scenario. Definitely. And you are like, so right. We should not engage with people who are
spreading negativity or they're trolling because there are not many people like that. There
are lots of people who are spreading positivity, so we should rather follow them and interact
with them because yeah, I mean, there are
lots of good people in the world.
Life is too short to be paying attention
to these trolls and stuff. Definitely. Okay.
So, uh, like we are almost at end of 2021 and new year is coming
soon. So, I know that we have been in a very bad shape from
last two years due to pandemic and like everyone
is suffering and everyone is having a hard
time.
Uh, but, still if you have to look back at 2021, What would you, how would you
look back at it? Like, what would you like
to take from it?
Santosh: Personally, 2021 was a great year for us. I mean, for our family. So I started consulting
last year. So, uh, I was able to fix a
lot of things financially. And then,
I was able to help a lot of people. I ended
up like, supporting more people on GitHub sponsor
program. So over and over, I think it was really a really great year for us and looking
forward to 2022 now.
And I did miss one thing probably. So I was not able to do a lot of open source this year,
but yeah, I mean, I was doing it in another way. I tried to actually do it via the videos,
making content. Because of course everything takes time, even though, I mean, some people
are okay, they're writing code, but they won't be able to do other stuff.
So my focus shifted from doing a lot of open source to creating contents this year.
So probably next year, I'm probably, I'm trying to be back and do some, open source again,
but apart from, and what else. And, uh, of
course, I have an announcement, which I can
not do right now, but something coming up in 2022.
Anuradha: Ooh, I'm really waiting for it. It's sounds exciting. And I think I mean, I could be wrong,
but I think that creating content also is a form of open source because if it's like
freely available to all, because people get benefit out of it and like, you have really
supported a lot, lots of open source people. So
It's also a kind of chain reaction, like the
open source, which they are doing is helping
community and you are helping them sustain it.
Santosh: Of course when I
when it started, I was like, okay, I'm not doing anything.
I'm not contributing to open source. Then I realized, okay, in some ways I'm doing it,
of course, if I'm not able to do it, I'm actually supporting someone who is able to do it right.
Anuradha: It's, it's really nice. I mean, you are,
uh, your life is really a motivation and your
things. I always say that because, genuinely, I mean, you are one of the most
humble persons and nice persons, who
I have ever met, and I'm really thankful that
I've met you in person.
Santosh: Same here.
Anuradha: So, Last question. Do you do like yearly goal setting? So some big, high level things?
Like, what do I want to do in 2022? Uh, like, do you want to share shome of that, If you would like to.
Santosh: I mean, so believe me, I, as I had some goals for 2019 and 2020, then I stopped doing it
because I realized, I mean, I'm probably, I'm not going to do most of them.
Uh, because in 2019, I was pretty sure that I, what I want to do is I want to contribute
to open source. That's what I did. Then in 2020, I
decided to actually, uh, the goal was to give
a lot of talks, which I did again. Then this covid happened. And then
I said, no, I'm not going to have any goal in 2021.
Let it be how the life goes. I mean, I realize that, okay, life is too short to
predict something. I mean, to set it, set
goals, just leave it as it is, like, whatever
is going on. And before that, I never did
that. Just two years I had some goals,
but before that I was like, my life was unpredictable and I was not sure what is going to happen next.
So it was like roller coaster. I mean, of course, you might've seen the blog,
which I had written about my life, so I never believed in setting goals, but yeah. I mean,
two years I did that and of course I had whatever goal I had, I achieved few of them, but now not
now. I mean, it's okay. I think whatever I'm doing, I will continue doing that.
Anuradha: Yeah, that's all good. Give it, like, give the control to life, like bring the best to me.
Santosh: Actually
Anuradha: So, for the viewers, I will also put the link of Santosh's blog
that he is talking about, and I will also put his YouTube channel. It really
has lots of good content - tech talks with Santosh, do check it out and follow
if you are not following him already.
Uh, Thanks a lot Santosh for coming on my channel.
It was really nice talking to you.
Santosh: Same here.
Anuradha: I thought that it would go maybe half an hour, but we definitely have surpassed by minutes.
Santosh: You can edit it.
Anuradha: No, that's ok. Why should I edit it, there is no hard time
limit which I was looking for. I was thinking that I might not have enough to talk about, but
yeah, we definitely had a lot to talk about, so
thank you. Thank you so much. Do you have
anything to say in the end? I mean, if you
want to say something.
Santosh: The only thing I would like to say is, in case you are involved with
the community, just go ahead and help others. That's, uh, I mean, make an example out of
you. It's not like you should be doing something, everything alone, don't do that. Try to
help other people as well. Once you have achieved something, try to pass that to other developers
as well.
And in case you're not involved with the community, just go ahead and be part of it.
Anuradha: Yes. Thank you. I mean, so that's such a nice suggestion.
Thanks a lot again, it was very nice talking to you and having you on
my channel. Thank you.
Santosh: Same here.
Anuradha: bye.